So in the last video we were able to set up the contact poses.
We've got a contact pose when the heel actually contacts the ground here on frame 1 and we've also got
another contact pose here on frame 7.
The next thing I like to do is to work on the passing pose and that usually happens right around frame
for let's say and the passing pose is just when well the feet pass each other.
So we begin here on frame one with the left foot closest to us.
So we need to keep an eye on that foot as we move from frame one to frame.
For here it is.
Now we need to bring this foot down to be pushing off of the ground so it's just the toe on the ground
pushing off and the other leg passing by on its way to the other contact post.
So OK so let's take this foot here.
The foot iCade left and I'll just move it down a bit and I think what I'll do is clear the rotation
here so I'll press Allt are and that will clear the rotation and put it back parallel to the ground.
Let's also take it down to the ground so we know it's flat on the ground.
On a press all day G.
And that will clear the location.
And now I can rotate it back up onto the toe and move it straight back like that and the y axis and
something like maybe get them push in off like that.
Yeah something like that.
And now this foot doesn't look too bad actually.
I might rotate it down just a hair like that maybe even push it forward just a bit.
There we go.
All right so let's see how this works.
We've got our contact pose.
And then we've got our passing pose.
And then back to our contact pose here again.
We now need our passing pose at frame 10.
So what I'll do is I'll hit the A key and select all of the controls here on the character on frame
four.
And let me just scroll over here and I'm going to go ahead and copy this post so I'll hit this button
right here.
Move the frame up to frame 10.
And now let's paste this and flip it with this button here let's see if it works click that and then
we go.
So now we've got our passing poses at frame for and frame 10 and we've got our contact at 1 and 7.
So let's hit play and see what happens.
Get in there.
Now so far all we've dealt with is just the legs we really haven't moved that center of gravity control.
This one here that torso control up or down.
But now let's start working on well the down position and the up position.
So now that I have this selected it looks like I've got keyframes at 7 10.
I don't have one for four here.
I'm going to go ahead and insert a keyframe for four just so it's there.
I'm going to hit.
And I'll insert a keyframe for location.
And we go just so I have one at each of those main poses so far and now the down position we can think
of that as being around frame 2 and the down position is when the foot falls flat to the ground.
So you've got it here with the contact and now it's going to fall flat to the ground like the toe slaps
the ground.
The weight of the character is going to come down on that leg which means the head is going to come
down a bit as well.
So so far now we've had on the contact and the passing poses the head and the hips or the torso have
been in the exact same place for the down position they're going to go down.
And for the up position they'll of course go up.
So let's take this foot first of all and let's press alt are to clear the rotation clear the rotation
here as well auld are.
So now he is right down on the ground.
Go ahead and press all G just to make sure and I'll slide this back forward some like this.
So now his foot is right planted flat on the ground and I'm going to take this torso control and just
move it straight down.
Now the arms are going to kind of stay where they are because of the controls and that's OK for now.
We'll deal with the arms a little bit later I kind of like to deal with one thing at a time.
And this guy right here.
Let me make sure we've got this cleared with all our.
That's good.
And this guy I'm going to rotate back a bit like this maybe swing it back a little bit more like that.
There we go.
So now it should come down and back up a bit.
So he should come down and hit that ground like that now.
This foot has come out too much.
I'm just going to raise that back up just a bit like this and go.
So now you can see his foot goes from the heel and slaps the ground as the weight of the character comes
down onto that leg.
I may even want to bring him down just a hair more like that.
All right so he goes into the down position back up to the passing to the contact again.
We've got the passing and the contact so now we could do is do the opposite of the down on frame 8 here.
Why don't we do that.
So let's go ahead and select everything.
Copy it with this button here moved to frame 8 and paste it like so let's see how that works.
All right.
De-select everything with the achene now going to go forward.
There's that down position passing contact.
There's the new down position
passing and contact.
OK.
So you can see the key frames here.
So what's cool is so far we really only have three poses.
We've got the contact pose the passing pose and the down and we've been able to copy and paste the opposite
of each one of those to make our lives a little easier.
The next thing we should do is the up position which is going to be just past the passing pose.
So here we are frame 5 and the up position is going to find this front leg kind of almost straight and
the toe just barely touching the ground and the torso up.
So we we need to push that torso up a bit.
But first of all what I would do is take this and hit Allt R and get rid of the rotations for these
things called are here.
And I think I'm going to go ahead and press alt G just to put it right back to the center.
And then I'm going to drag this back and raise this up like that and I'm going to move that torso straight
up I better grab those hands as well so we don't break the elbows as we drag him up.
So I'll now drag that up and now I'll take this back just all the way I don't want to break the leg
like that.
I just want to get it.
So it's really close to being straight.
You don't want to bend anything backwards like that.
So just so it's almost straight and this guy I mean make sure the rotation is clear on that.
And I'm going to move him up.
Pretty far out like this and maybe rotate it up just a bit like that let me see if I can move this back
just a little bit.
Maybe I'll bring him down a hair just so we don't break that leg.
And here we go.
All right.
So that is our position.
Let's see how that looks.
So he goes down.
All right.
So here is the contact.
The down position the passing PPOs the up position.
I don't like this foot.
What did I do here.
Let me rotate this back then.
I don't like that being up so far turned up like that.
All right so now there's your contact.
You're down.
You're passing and your contact.
OK.
So let's now take this frame five and let's copy it and paste the opposite of it over at frame 11.
All right so I'll select everything with the key.
Copy everything.
Move this over to frame 11 and paste and we go.
All right.
So let's see how this works.
I'm going to go ahead and save go back to the beginning and hit play.
We're getting there.
There's some flopping us here at the end with the feet we'll need to work on that.
But that's a good beginning.
We've got the sense that he's going up and down that there's weight to the character Yeah I think that's
going to work.
All right.
So in the next video what we'll do is we'll begin cleaning this up a bit.
We'll begin working on the arms and see if we can finish up our run cycle.
So see you then.